Laser beam (#221)
tari-labs/tari-university: src/scaling/laser-beam/MainReport.md

# Laser Beam

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Detail Scheme](#detail-scheme)
  - [Funding Transaction](#funding-transaction)
  - [Refund Procedure](#refund-procedure)
    - [Alice - Part 1](#alice---part-1)
    - [Alice - Part 2](#alice---part-2)
    - [Bob - Part 1](#bob---part-1)
    - [Bob - Part 2](#bob---part-2)
  - [Revoke Previous Refund](#revoke-previous-refund)
  - [Punishment Transaction](#punishment-transaction)
  - [Channel Closure](#channel-closure)
- [Conclusions, Observations and Recommendations](#conclusions-observations-and-recommendations)
- [Appendices](#appendices)
  - [Appendix A: Notation Used](#appendix-a-notation-used)
- [References](#references)
- [Contributors](#contributors)

## Introduction

> Proof-of-Work (PoW) blockchains are slow and have poor scalability properties. A payment channel 

Author: Updated

protocol that was originally designed for Bitcoin, and which enables instant transactions between participating nodes. 
It features a peer-to-peer system for making micropayments through a network of bidirectional payment channels. The 
Lightning Network's dispute mechanism requires all users to constantly watch the blockchain for fraud. Various mainnet 
implementations that support Bitcoin exist and, with small tweaks, some of them are also able to support Litecoin 
([[2]], [[3]], [[4]], [[10]]).

Laser Beam is an adaptation of the Lightning Network for the [Mimblewimble](../../protocols/mimblewimble-1/MainReport.md) 
protocol, to be implemented for Beam ([[5]], [[6]], [[7]]). At the time of writing of this report (November&nbsp;2019), 
the specifications were far advanced, but still work in progress. Beam has a working demonstration in its mainnet 
repository, which at this stage demonstrates off-chain transactions in a single channel between two parties [[8]]. 
According to the Request for Comment (RFC) documents, Beam does not plan to support multiparty (more than two) payment 

> channels, but rather to implement routing across different payment channels in the Lightning Network style.

Author: Good catch! Agreed

  \end{aligned}
\mspace{50mu} (1)
$$

Alice and Bob also need to set up their own respective refund transactions so they can be compensated should the channel 
never be used; this is performed via a refund procedure. A refund procedure (off‑chain) consists of four parts, whereby 
each user creates two transactions: one kept partially secret (discussed below) and the other shared. Each partially 
secret transaction creates a different intermediate multiparty UTXO, which is then used as input in two shared 
transactions, to spending the same set of outputs to each participant.

All consecutive refund procedures work in exactly the same way. In the equations that follow, double subscripts 
$\_{AA}$, $\_{AB}$, $\_{BA}$ and $\_{BB}$ have the following meaning: the first letter and the second letter indicate 
who controls the transaction and who created the value, respectively. Blinding factors denoted by 
$\hat{k}$ and $k^{\prime}$, and values denoted by $v^{\prime}$, have a special purpose, discussed later, so that 
$\hat{k}\_{N\_{a}} \neq k\_{N\_{a}} \neq k^{\prime}\_{N\_{a}}$ and $v\_{N\_{a}} \neq v^{\prime}\_{N\_{a}}$. The 

> $N\_{\text{th}}$ refund procedure is as follows:

Author: Graph is a very good idea

lock height $h\_{N}$ corresponds to the current blockchain height. 
$$
\begin{aligned}
  -\text{MultiSig}(0)+\text{MultiSig}(N)\_{A}+\text{fee} 
       & =\text{Excess}(N)\_{A1} \\\\
  -\Big(v\_{0}H+(k_{0\_{a}}+k\_{0\_{b}})G\Big) + \Big(v\_{0}H+(\hat{k}\_{N\_{a}}+k\_{N\_{b}})G\Big) + fH 
       &= \mathcal{X}\_{N\_{A1}} 
\end{aligned}
\mspace{50mu} (2)
$$

They collaborate to create $\text{MultiSig}(N)\_{A}$, its Bulletproof range proof,
the signature challenge and Bob's potion of the signature, $s\_{N\_{AB1}}$. Alice does not share the kernel and thus keeps her 
part of the final aggregated signature, $s\_{N\_{AA1}}$, hidden.

$$
\begin{aligned}
  \mathcal{X}\_{N\_{A1}} &= (-k_{0\_{a}}+\hat{k}\_{N\_{a}})G+(-k\_{0\_{b}}+k\_{N\_{b}})G \\\\ 
                         &= P\_{N\_{AA1}}+P\_{N\_{AB1}}
\end{aligned}
\mspace{50mu} (3)
$$

$$
\begin{aligned}
  \text{Challenge: }\mathcal{H}(R_{N\_{AA1}}+R\_{N\_{AB1}}\parallel P\_{N\_{AA1}}+P\_{N\_{AB1}}\parallel f\parallel h\_{N}) 
\end{aligned}
\mspace{50mu} (4)
$$

$$
\begin{aligned}
  \text{Signature tuple: }(s\_{N\_{AA1}}+s\_{N\_{AB1}},R\_{N\_{AA1}}+R\_{N\_{AB1}}) 
\end{aligned}
\mspace{50mu} (5)
$$

$$
\begin{aligned}

>   \text{Kernel of this transaction, kept secret:}\quad\mathcal{K}\_{N\_{AA1}} 

Author: Alice collects Bob's half of the signature adds her half of the signature for transaction part 1, thus completes the kernel, but she does not share it.

>   \text{Kernel of this transaction, kept secret:}\quad\mathcal{K}\_{N\_{AA1}} 

Reviewer: Yes thats true, but the whole kernel is not kept secret. Part of it is missing for Bob (Alice's signature).

>   \text{Kernel of this transaction, kept secret:}\quad\mathcal{K}\_{N\_{AA1}} 

Author: Ok, got you, final signature is kept secret by not sharing the final kernel.

  \lbrace\text{Bob's commitment}\rbrace \\\\
  \hat{k}\_{(N-1)\_{b}}   & \quad & \lbrace\text{Bob shares with Alice}\rbrace 
\end{aligned}
\mspace{50mu} (17)
$$

Note that although the kernels for transactions (2) and (10) were kept secret, when the Bulletproof range proofs for 
$\text{MultiSig}(N-1)\_{A}$ and  $\text{MultiSig}(N-1)\_{B}$ were constructed, resultant values of those MultiSig 
Pedersen commitments were revealed to the counterparty. Each of them is thus able to verify the counterparty's blinding 
factor share by constructing the counterparty's MultiSig Pedersen commitment.

Alice verifies:
$$
\begin{aligned}  
  \Big(v\_{0}H+(k\_{(N-1)\_{a}}+\hat{k}\_{(N-1)\_{b}})G\Big) \overset{?}{=} C(v\_{0},\ k\_{(N-1)\_{a}}+\hat{k}\_{(N-1)\_{b}})
\end{aligned}
\mspace{50mu} (18)
$$

Bob verifies:
$$
\begin{aligned}
  \Big(v\_{0}H+(\hat{k}\_{(N-1)\_{a}}+k\_{(N-1)\_{b}})G\Big) \overset{?}{=} C(v\_{0},\ \hat{k}\_{(N-1)\_{a}}+k\_{(N-1)\_{b}})
\end{aligned}
\mspace{50mu} (19)
$$

Although each party will now have its counterparty's blinding factor share in the counterparty's intermediate multiparty 

> UTXO, they will still not be able to spend it, because the corresponding transaction kernel is still kept secret by the 

Author: Clarified

counterparty.

### Punishment Transaction

If a counterparty decides to broadcast a revoked set of refund transactions, and if the honest party is actively monitoring 
the blockchain and able to detect the attempted foul play, a punishment transaction can immediately be constructed 
before the relative time lock $h_{rel}$ expires. Whenever any of the counterparty's intermediate multiparty UTXOs, 
$\text{MultiSig}(N-m)\ \text{for}\ 0<m<N$, becomes available in the blockchain, the honest party can spend all the 

> funds to its own output, because it knows the total blinding factor.

Author: Clarified

### Channel Closure

Whenever the parties agree to a channel closure, the original on‑chain multiparty UTXO, $\text{MultiSig}(0)​$, is spent 
to their respective outputs in a collaborative transaction. In the event of a single party deciding to close the channel 

> unilaterally for whatever reason, its latest refund transaction is broadcast, effectively closing the channel.

Author: Clarified

Opening a channel requires one collaborative funding transaction on the blockchain. Closing a channel involves each 
party broadcasting its respective portion of the refund transaction to the blockchain, or collaborating to broadcast a 
single settlement transaction. A round-trip open channel, multiple off‑chain spending and close channel thus involves, 
at most, three on‑chain transactions.

## Conclusions, Observations and Recommendations

1. MultiSig

   The Laser Beam MultiSig corresponds to a Mimblewimble $2-of-2$ Multiparty Bulletproof UTXO, as described 
   [here](../../protocols/mimblewimble-mp-bp-utxo/MainReport.md#mimblewimble--ntext-of-n--multiparty-bulletproof-utxo). 
   There is more than one method for creating the MultiSig's associated Bulletproof range proof, and utilizing the 
   [Bulletproofs MPC Protocol](../../protocols/mimblewimble-mp-bp-utxo/MainReport.md#creating-the-multiparty-bulletproof-range-proof) 

>    can make it more secure. 

Author: It is an observation. Changed `can make it more secure` to `may make it more secure and enable wallet reconstruction`.

>    can make it more secure. 

Reviewer: I still disagree on the secure part. Why do you say its more secure? I can see the wallet reconstruction as being something. But that does not make it more secure?

> 1. Linked Transactions

Author: In Markdown a list can just be `1. ,,,,` `1. ,,,,`  `1. ,,,,`  `1. ,,,,`. It renders correctly.

   Part 2 of the refund procedure requires a kernel with a relative time lock to the kernel of its corresponding 
   part 1 refund procedure, when those kernels are not yet available in the base layer, as well as a different, 

>    non-standard, signature challenge. Metadata about the linked transaction kernel and non-standard signature challenge 

Author: The essence is the challenge for Part 1 and Part 2 must be calculated differently. If Part is the standard method, Part 2 is not.

Changed `non-standard signature challenge` to `non-similar signature challenge`

   creation must therefore be embedded within part 2 refund transaction kernels.  

> 1. Refund Procedure

Author: See previous comment

   In the event that for round $N$, Alice or Bob decides to stop negotiations after their respective part 1 has been 
   concluded and that transaction has been broadcast, the result would be that funding UTXO, $\text{MultiSig}(0)$, would be 

>    replaced by the respective $\text{MultiSig}(N)$. The channel will still be open. However, it also cannot be spent 

Author: Clarified, added that logic.

   unilaterally, as the blinding factor is shared. Any new updates of the channel will then need to be based on 
   $\text{MultiSig}(N)$ as the funding UTXO.

   In the event that for round $N$, Alice or Bob decides to stop negotiations after their respective part 1 and part 2 
   have been concluded and those transactions have been broadcast, it will effectively be a channel closure.

> 1. Revoke Attack Vector

Author: See previous comment in this regard

   When revoking the previous refund  $(N-1)$, Alice can get hold of Bob's blinding factor share $\hat{k}\_{(N-1)\_{b}}$ 
   (17), and after verifying that it is correct (18), refuse to give up her blinding factor share. This will leave 
   Alice with the ability to broadcast any of refund transactions $(N-1)$ and $N$, without fear of Bob broadcasting a 

>    punishment transaction. Bob, on the other hand, will only be able to broadcast refund transaction $N$.

Reviewer: This is not a problem. Lighting has the same issue but solves it with the way the messages are sent:
https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lightning-rfc/blob/master/02-peer-protocol.md#normal-operation

Author: Confirmed with Beam (Vladislav G) that this is a possibility; one party can decide not to reveal its blinding factor share after the counterparty's share has been received.

Reviewer: Mmm, Well they should be able to solve it by just doing it the same way lightning does it as in lightning also needs to share the pre-image hashes with each other.

# Laser Beam

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Detail Scheme](#detail-scheme)
  - [Funding Transaction](#funding-transaction)
  - [Refund Procedure](#refund-procedure)
    - [Alice - Part 1](#alice---part-1)
    - [Alice - Part 2](#alice---part-2)
    - [Bob - Part 1](#bob---part-1)
    - [Bob - Part 2](#bob---part-2)
  - [Revoke Previous Refund](#revoke-previous-refund)
  - [Punishment Transaction](#punishment-transaction)
  - [Channel Closure](#channel-closure)
- [Conclusions, Observations and Recommendations](#conclusions-observations-and-recommendations)
- [Appendices](#appendices)
  - [Appendix A: Notation Used](#appendix-a-notation-used)
- [References](#references)
- [Contributors](#contributors)

## Introduction

> Proof-of-Work (PoW) blockchains are not immutable in realtime and have poor scalability properties. A payment channel 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Proof-of-Work (PoW) blockchains have long confirmation times and are not suited to realtime transactions. A payment channel 
```

Reviewer: Long confirmations is relative as well. 
Perhaps we should rewrite this as:
```suggestion
Proof-of-Work (PoW) blockchains are not suited to realtime transactions as there is no guarantee that the transaction will end up on the blockchain . A payment channel 
```

Author: The original meaning is lost, will change as follows:
`Proof-of-Work (PoW) blockchains are notoriously slow, as transactions need to be a number of blocks in the past to be confirmed, and have poor scalability properties.`

<div align="center"><b>Figure&nbsp;1: Laser Beam Funding, Refund and Revoke for Round (N)</b></div>

All consecutive refund procedures work in exactly the same way. In the equations that follow, double subscripts 
$\_{AA}$, $\_{AB}$, $\_{BA}$ and $\_{BB}$ have the following meaning: the first letter and the second letter indicate 
who controls the transaction and who created the value, respectively. Blinding factors denoted by 
$\hat{k}$ and $k^{\prime}$, and values denoted by $v^{\prime}$, have a special purpose, discussed later, so that 
$\hat{k}\_{N\_{a}} \neq k\_{N\_{a}} \neq k^{\prime}\_{N\_{a}}$ and $v\_{N\_{a}} \neq v^{\prime}\_{N\_{a}}$. The 
$N\_{\text{th}}$ refund procedure is as follows:

### Refund Procedure

#### Alice - Part 1

Alice and Bob set up Alice's intermediate MultiSig funding transaction (Figure&nbsp;1), spending the original funding 
MultiSig UTXO. The lock height $h\_{N}$ corresponds to the current blockchain height. 

$$
\begin{aligned}
  -\text{MultiSig}(0)+\text{MultiSig}(N)\_{A}+\text{fee} 
       & =\text{Excess}(N)\_{A1} \\\\
  -\Big(v\_{0}H+(k_{0\_{a}}+k\_{0\_{b}})G\Big) + \Big(v\_{0}H+(\hat{k}\_{N\_{a}}+k\_{N\_{b}})G\Big) + fH 

>        &= \mathcal{X}\_{N\_{A1}} 

Reviewer 3: What assumptions are imposed on the blinded fee  "fH"  and why does it not appear in equation (3) ?

Author: Good catch! In equation 2 and 10 the values on H should be `-v_0 + (v_0-f) + f = 0`
Note that `fH` is not considered blinded as it is equal to Pedersen commitment `fH + 0G`, zero blinding factor.

\end{aligned}
\mspace{50mu} (2)
$$

They collaborate to create $\text{MultiSig}(N)\_{A}$, its Bulletproof range proof,

> the signature challenge and Bob's potion of the signature, $s\_{N\_{AB1}}$. Alice does not share the final kernel and 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the signature challenge and Bob's portion of the signature, $s\_{N\_{AB1}}$. Alice does not share the final kernel and 
```

thus keeps her part of the aggregated signature, $s\_{N\_{AA1}}$, hidden.

$$
\begin{aligned}
  \mathcal{X}\_{N\_{A1}} &= (-k_{0\_{a}}+\hat{k}\_{N\_{a}})G+(-k\_{0\_{b}}+k\_{N\_{b}})G \\\\ 
                         &= P\_{N\_{AA1}}+P\_{N\_{AB1}}
\end{aligned}
\mspace{50mu} (3)
$$

$$
\begin{aligned}
  \text{Challenge:}\quad\mathcal{H}(R_{N\_{AA1}}+R\_{N\_{AB1}}\parallel P\_{N\_{AA1}}+P\_{N\_{AB1}}\parallel f\parallel h\_{N}) 
\end{aligned}
\mspace{50mu} (4)
$$

$$
\begin{aligned}
  \text{Final signature tuple, kept secret:}\quad(s\_{N\_{AA1}}+s\_{N\_{AB1}},R\_{N\_{AA1}}+R\_{N\_{AB1}}) 
\end{aligned}
\mspace{50mu} (5)
$$

$$
\begin{aligned}
  \text{Kernel of this transaction:}\quad\mathcal{K}\_{N\_{AA1}} 
\end{aligned}

> \mspace{50mu} (6)

Reviewer 3: It is not clear why this is an equation on its own. It appears to be simply 'stating notation', unless it spells out what the actual kernel would be in this case. ... same comment for equation (14).

Author: Yes, those are not equations on its own, but important to define as those values are used in (9) and (17) respectively.
